Draft EIP: BLS12-381 Key Generation (#2333)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-draft_bls_keygen.md

---

> eip: <to be assigned>

Reviewer: Please use 2333 (this PR) or 2337 (the issue number). The same rule applies to your other submissions :wink:

In addition to the above, this method of deriving keys provides an emergency backup signature scheme that is resistant to quantum computers for in the event that BLS12-381 is ever deemed insecure.

## A note on purpose

This specification is designed not only to be an Ethereum 2.0 standard, but one that is adopted by the wider community who have adopted the BLS12-381 signature standard. It is therefore important also to consider the needs of the wider industry along with those specific to Ethereum. As a part of these considerations, it is the intention of the author that this standard eventually migrate to a more neutral repository in the future.

## Motivation

### Deficiencies of the existing mechanism

> The new curve (BLS12-381) used for signatures within Ethereum 2.0 (alongside many other projects) mandates a new key derivation scheme. The most commonly used scheme for key derivation at the within Ethereum 1.x is [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) (also known as HD derivation) which deems keys greater than the curve order invalid. Based on the order of the private key subgroup of BLS12-381 and the size of the entropy utilised, more than 54% of keys generated by BIP32 would be invalid. (secp256k1 keys derived by BIP32 are invalid with probability less than 1 in 2<sup>-127</sup>.)

Reviewer 2: Should this say `have a probability of 1 in 2^127` to be valid? As it currently stands it sounds like the odds are in favor of secp256k1 keys.

By establishing a standard before the first users begin to generate their keys, the hope is that a single standard is highly pervasive and therefore can be assumed to be the method by which the majority of keys are provided. This is valuable for two reasons, firstly in order for a post-quantum backup mechanism to be effective, there needs to be an enshrined mechanism whereby users can switch to a post-quantum signature scheme with pre-shared public keys (something this EIP provides at 0 extra storage cost). Secondly, this unifies the inter- and intra-chain ecosystem by having common tooling ideally allowing users to switch between key-management systems.

### A post-quantum backup

This key derivation scheme has a Lamport key pair which is generated as a intermediate step in the key generation process. This key pair can be used to provide a Lamport signature which is a useful backup in the event of BLS12-381 no longer being considered secure (in the event of quantum computing making a sudden advancement, for example.). The idea is the Lamport signature will act as a bridge to a new signature scheme which is deemed to be secure.

## Specification

> Keys are defined in terms of a tree structure whereby the tree path uniquely and the tree's seed uniquely determines any given key. This is very useful as one can start with a single source of entropy and build out a practically unlimited number of keys. The specification can be broken into two sub-components: generating the master key, and constructing a child key from its parent. The master key is used as the root of the tree and then the tree is built in layers on top of this root.

Reviewer 2: I find the repeated `uniquely` odd here. Perhaps a better wording would be "where a tree's seed and a given tree path uniquely determines`...

> Keys are defined in terms of a tree structure whereby the tree path uniquely and the tree's seed uniquely determines any given key. This is very useful as one can start with a single source of entropy and build out a practically unlimited number of keys. The specification can be broken into two sub-components: generating the master key, and constructing a child key from its parent. The master key is used as the root of the tree and then the tree is built in layers on top of this root.

Author: ```suggestion
Keys are defined in terms of a tree structure where a key is determined by the tree's seed and a tree path. This is very useful as one can start with a single source of entropy and build out a practically unlimited number of keys. The specification can be broken into two sub-components: generating the master key, and constructing a child key from its parent. The master key is used as the root of the tree and then the tree is built in layers on top of this root.
```

### The Tree Structure

> The key tree is defined purely through the relationship between a child-node and its ancestors. Starting with the root of the tree, the *master key*, a child node can be derived by knowing the parent's private key and the index of the child. The tree is broken up into depths which are indicated by `/` and the master node is described as `m`. The first child of the master node is therefore described as `m / 0` and `m / 0`'s siblings are `m / i` for all `0 > i > 2**256 - 1`.

Reviewer 2: Should be `0 < i < 2^256 - 1`

> The key tree is defined purely through the relationship between a child-node and its ancestors. Starting with the root of the tree, the *master key*, a child node can be derived by knowing the parent's private key and the index of the child. The tree is broken up into depths which are indicated by `/` and the master node is described as `m`. The first child of the master node is therefore described as `m / 0` and `m / 0`'s siblings are `m / i` for all `0 > i > 2**256 - 1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key tree is defined purely through the relationship between a child-node and its ancestors. Starting with the root of the tree, the *master key*, a child node can be derived by knowing the parent's private key and the index of the child. The tree is broken up into depths which are indicated by `/` and the master node is described as `m`. The first child of the master node is therefore described as `m / 0` and `m / 0`'s siblings are `m / i` for all `0 < i < 2**256 - 1`.
```

```text
      [m / 0] - [m / 0 / 0]
     /        \
    /           [m / 0 / 1]
[m] - [m / 1]
    \
     ...
      [m / i]
```

### Key derivation

Every key generated via the key derivation process derives a child key via a set of intermediate Lamport keys. The idea behind the Lamport keys is to provide a post-quantum backup in case BLS12-381 is no longer deemed secure. At a high level, the key derivation process works by using the parent node's privkey as an entropy source for the Lamport private keys which are then hashed together into a compressed Lamport public key, this public key is then hashed into BLS12-381's private key group.

#### `IKM_to_lamport_SK`

##### Inputs

* `IKM`, a secret octet string
* `salt`, an octet string

##### Outputs

* `lamport_SK`, an array of 255 32-octet stings

> ##### ##### Definitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Definitions
```

The Lamport signatures used within this scheme have 255 bits worth of security, not 256. This is done because HKDF-SHA256, the mechanism used to stretch a key's entropy, has a length-limit of `255 * hash_function_digest_size`. The 1-bit reduction in security is deemed preferable over increasing the complexity of the entropy stretching mechanism.

### SHA256

SHA256 is used as the hash function throughout this standard as it is the hash function chosen by the for the [IETF BLS12-381 standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-00). Using a single hash function for everything decreases the number of cryptographic primitives required to implement the entire BLS standardised key-stack while reducing the surface for flaws in the overall system.

### `hkdf_mod_r()`

> The function `hkdf_mod_r()` in this standard is the same as the `KeyGen` function described in the [draft IETF BLS standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-00) and therefore the private key obtained from `KeyGen` is equal to that obtained from `hkdf_mod_r` for the same seed bytes. This means that common engineering can be dione when implementing this function. Additionally because of its inclusion in an IETF standard, it has had much scrutiny by many cryptographers and cryptanalysts, thereby lending credence to its safety as a key derivation mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function `hkdf_mod_r()` in this standard is the same as the `KeyGen` function described in the [draft IETF BLS standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-00) and therefore the private key obtained from `KeyGen` is equal to that obtained from `hkdf_mod_r` for the same seed bytes. This means that common engineering can be done when implementing this function. Additionally because of its inclusion in an IETF standard, it has had much scrutiny by many cryptographers and cryptanalysts, thereby lending credence to its safety as a key derivation mechanism.
```
